
		HIPS News - Volume 3

Here is the list of all changes I've made to HIPS since last August 10, 1994.
Again, if you want an update to your copy of HIPS at any time, just
contact me.  Similarly, if you have any problems, or find bugs, or have
written something you'd like to share with other HIPS users, just let
me know.  Finally, if you want to set up a local distribution list
for this newsletter (i.e. hipsusers@machine), tell me what it is after
you set it up.

Michael Landy
landy@nyu.edu

------------------------------------------------------------------------

8/15/94	Slight fix of hips/libsrc/makefile.src
	Slight fix of user-contributed/canny/sources/canny.c
	New programs added for nonlossy run-length image compression: btorle
	and rletob, as well as subroutines to do the work: h_btorle and
	h_rletob.  Affected files:  hips/sources/{makefile.src,btorle.c,
	rletob.c}, hips.libsrc/{makefile.src,h_btorle.c,h_rletob.c}, man
	pages and documentation, sys/hips_error.h, lib/sources/herrs.c.

9/15/94	Trivial changes to hipsaddon/main/sources/binatts/binatts.c and
	hipsaddon/main/sources/vacls/vacls.driver.c (added return(0)).

10/13/94 Slight change of README_INSTALL to note a requirement to redefine
	H__RANDTYPE for OSF UNIX.

11/2/94	The archives of the HIPS News mailings are now kept in the HIPS
	source directory (in subdirectory Changes).

News:  The Turing Institute Ltd. is Dead --- The Turing Institute is Reborn!

		Many HIPS users are familiar with the Turing Institute, as
	they were a distributor in Europe of HIPS2 as well as the authors of
	the HIPS product known as HIPSADDON.  Originally, the Institute was a
	nonprofit institute loosely associated with the University of
	Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland, UK, specializing in robotics,
	computer vision, image processing and a few other areas of research
	(as well as possessing a fine library in these areas).  A few years
	ago, this nonprofit institute (let's call it `T1') was convinced that
	it would be a good idea to become a for-profit corporation, and with
	funds from Scottish Enterprise and other places, Turing Institute Ltd.
	(let's call it `T2') was born.  The idea was to take the various
	technologies that had been developed at Turing and turn them into
	commercial products.  Well, earlier this year, T2 went bust in a
	fairly big way.  At this point, most of what was T2 has been
	liquidated, and a lot of creditors (including yours truly) have been
	stiffed.  So it goes...  The principal scientists of T2 have since
	formed a new nonprofit research institute, again called the Turing
	Institute (or T3), this time associated with the University of
	Glasgow.
		This has several implications for HIPS users, both old and new.
	First, those of you who have already bought HIPSADDON (or HIPSPLUS
	from SharpImage, or HIPS2 from Turing) will continue to have the right
	to use HIPSADDON, but the software will no longer be supported,
	because the banks that inherited T2 and its debt will not allow
	SharpImage to sell HIPSADDON any longer (at least not under reasonable
	terms).  Second, HIPSADDON will no longer be sold by SharpImage (or
	anyone else, as far as I can tell).  Third, SharpImage is exploring a
	continued alliance with T3, and HIPS2 will thus likely soon be available
	again from the Turing Institute in its newest guise.  Fourth, T3 is
	busy developing HIPS-related software including new interactive user
	interfaces for X11 and new pattern recognition software.  These will
	soon be available to HIPS users.   I will send out an announcement
	about that when things are finalized.

News:	New HIPS products from Thomson

		Two new HIPS products have just become available:  ALLEGORY
	and the ALLEGORY NEURAL NETS EXTENSION.  These are available from
	Thomson (their Electronics Laboratories in Rennes, France) as well as
	from SharpImage Software.  ALLEGORY is a computer vision software
	package that provides HIPS with a visual programming language user
	interface.  It provides access to all of HIPS' capabilities through
	use of a mouse, windows and menus.  It allows the user to combine HIPS
	routines (as well as several add-on routines provided with ALLEGORY)
	in a visual representation of the vision/image processing system under
	development.  It adds programming constructs (conditionals, loops,
	etc.) to the image processing library.  It includes facilities for
	displaying intermediate results and manipulating datasets.  The NEURAL
	NETS EXTENSION provides a suite of algorithms for classification based
	on artificial neural networks, statistical techniques, and so on.
	Supplied programs include:  back-propagation, polynomial network,
	restricted Coulomb energy, Kohonen network, Bayesian classification
	and nearest neighbor classification.  Additional utility routines
	allow for conversion between different data formats, preprocessing
	(e.g. principal components analysis), postprocessing (e.g.
	binarization) and set operations (subset, union, etc.).  These two
	products are available only in binary form (unlike the rest of HIPS).
	For further information and pricing, contact SharpImage Software (that
	is, me).

Michael Landy				Voice:	(212) 998-7857
SharpImage Software			Fax:	(212) 995-4349 (NOTE: address
P.O. Box 373, Prince Street Station		fax messages c/o Michael Landy,
New York, NY   10012-0007			New York University)
					Email:	landy@nyu.edu
