

								January 4, 1994

To:  Users of the HIPS software for Image Processing

Welcome to the HIPS mailing list.  I am instituting this mailing list so that
HIPS users may be apprised of changes to the HIPS software (bug fixes,
changes, new programs, etc.).  This will be a mediated list, which means that
mail to the list is sent to me (landy@nyu.edu), and I bunch together items
from HIPS users as well as news items generated by myself and send the result
on to folks on the mailing list.  My guess is that this will not result in
large amounts of junk email, but rather a few mailings per year at the most.

IF YOU RECEIVED THIS BY MESSAGE BY EMAIL:

	I have culled the initial mailing list from people who have purchased
	HIPS in the past.  This means that I have an email address for you and
	have already included you on the distribution list.  If you prefer not
	to received it, simply send me email and I'll remove your name from
	the list.  You need do nothing to remain on the list.

IF YOU RECEIVED THIS MESSAGE BY REGULAR MAIL:

	I have your postal address because in the past someone at your company
	purchased HIPS, but I have no email address for any of the HIPS users
	at your company.  So, please help me by passing on this letter to
	anyone who uses or maintains HIPS.  If anyone is interested in being
	added to the mailing list they need only send me email (to
	landy@nyu.edu) requesting that they be on the list (and including a
	preferred email address for me to use).

IF YOU HAVE A LARGE NUMBER OF HIPS USERS:

	Consider setting up a local email distribution list (e.g.
	hips-users@machine) and then I need only email one copy of the
	newsletter to your site.

PLEASE PASS THIS NOTE ON TO ANYONE AT YOUR SITE WHO USES OR MAINTAINS HIPS.

News:

Since this is the first newsletter, it is not clear how far back I should go
with news items.  Here are a few highlights:

HIPS2:  In Fall of 1991 HIPS2 was released.  This was a major rewrite of HIPS
from the ground up.  It is largely upward-compatible with the original HIPS,
and includes many new features.  Most users either have HIPS-2 (because they
purchased HIPS since 9/91 or purchased an upgrade).  If you are still using
the original HIPS, there is a $300 fee for the upgrade (the only time we ever
charged for an upgrade).  The new features include:

*	Most facilities are available as user commands and as callable
subroutines at several levels of abstraction;

*	The software is object-oriented.  Each program automatically
converts images into the format required by that program.  For example, a
display program will automatically halftone an image to be displayed on a
monochrome display device.

*	Color image processing is well integrated into the software.  Each
image file can consist of multiple color frames (which can be different time
steps, different slices, etc.) each of which may consist of multiple color
planes (such as red/green/blue or multiple image bands).  Colormaps may be
stored along with images for gamma correction or pseudocolor.

*	The entire system supports processing of a rectangular
region-of-interest within a larger image in an integrated fashion.
Other forms of region-of-interest can be performed as well by concatenating
standard HIPS-2 commands.

*	A general, extensible database facility is included which allows users
to define arbitrary numbers of variables, arrays and text, which are stored
along with image data.

*	The command level interface is standardized across the entire package.

*	Dozens of new programs have been added which extend the HIPS-2
capabilities for image arithmetic, spatial filtering, support for windowing
systems such as X and SunView, and so on.

The differences between HIPS and HIPS-2 are quite extensive.  The software is,
by and large, fully upward compatible in the sense that images that you
currently have which were written using HIPS programs will be usable with
HIPS-2, and no functionality is lost with HIPS-2.  However, there are some
issues concerning the upgrade of which you should be aware.  Images written by
HIPS-2 programs can not be read using HIPS programs.  If you have written HIPS
programs locally, they will need to be modified in order to use them with
HIPS-2.  The minimal set of changes required to get your local code to run
under HIPS-2 is quite minor, however, and is fully described in the HIPS-2
documentation.  The pain of the transition to HIPS-2 should be minor and fully
recompensed by the added functionality and ease of use that comes with
HIPS-2.  Finally, the HIPS package called XHEADER has been eliminated and a
more efficient header extension package is now included as a standard part of
HIPS.  HIPS-2 includes programs to help you convert images made using the
XHEADER package to the new HIPS-2 extended parameters format.

UPGRADES:  Generally, users may acquire current copies of HIPS for free or for
a small, nominal fee (other than the fee for upgrading from HIPS to HIPS2 for
those stragglers out there).  My preferred method is to use ftp across the
internet, in which case the copy is free.  If I have to make a tape and ship
it to you, I prefer to get reimbursed for the tape and shipping.  If anyone is
interested in a current copy at any time, simply contact me (landy@nyu.edu).

USER-CONTRIBUTED SOFTWARE:  As you know, HIPS includes a large directory of
software contributed by HIPS users around the world.  This directory keeps
growing as users submit new things.  For example, the University of Sheffield
recently submitted the program `xdisp' which allows a user to display images
under X-windows and interactively define several polygonal
regions-of-interest, which are then stored in a HIPS2 header.  If any of you
have HIPS programs that you would like to contribute to the general pool,
please do so!  To submit software, first contact me and I will give you
further instructions about how this is done.

ALLEGRO:  There is now a graphical user interface for HIPS.  It was written at
Thomson-CSF in France, and is now a commercial-available product called
Allegro.  This program works with the HIPS software as a visual programming
environment.  The user has access to most of the HIPS library of programs and
can interactively set up a visual flow diagram of an image processing
or vision algorithm which combines multiple HIPS programs.  For information on
Allegro, contact:

	T. Plassard     			Voice: (33) 99.25.42.00
	Thomson-CSF     			Fax: (33) 99.25.43.34
	Laboratoires Electroniques de Rennes    Telex: THOM 616780 F
	Avenue de Belle Fontaine        	Email: rii@ler.thomson.fr
	35510 Cesson-Sevigne, France

H_BOOLEAN:  A minor change has happened recently to accomodate the new program
`xdisp'.  It turns out that there is a conflict in the definition of Boolean
between that used in HIPS and that included in some of the X-windows include
files.  So, the current copy of HIPS has changed the HIPS type for Boolean
variables to be called h_boolean.  This change affected huge numbers of files,
and will affect your HIPS programs as well if you use the Boolean type (simply
change all instances of Boolean to h_boolean to fix it).

OTHER RECENT CHANGES:  Well, there have probably been lots of bug fixes
lately, but, well, I can't remember them all.  So, feel free to upgrade to the
current version of HIPS, and from now on I'll include all changes in future
newsletters!

Michael Landy				Voice:	(212) 998-7857
SharpImage Software			Fax:	(212) 995-4349 (NOTE: address
P.O. Box 373, Prince Street Station		fax messages c/o Michael Landy,
New York, NY   10012-0007			New York University)
					Email:	landy@nyu.edu
