Installation instructions for xdisp:
-----------------------------------

cd ./src
edit Makefile for compiler, options, directories etc if needed
if rebuilding, do a 'make clean'
make
cp xdisp destdir
make clean

There is a man page xdisp.l in doc, and also a LaTeX document describing the
program and its use. There is a ready made .dvi and .ps (PostScript) version
of the document also in ./doc, for people without TeX. If you haven't got
PostScript - sorry! - I'll try and do an nroff/troff version at next release.

If you want to include extra user defined LUTs or cursors (see document), 
these should added to the ./src/luts and ./src/cursors before building. Note 
that the parameter to gencursors and genluts in the Makefile are the default
cursor and LUT used by xdisp on startup. A basic set of LUTs and cursors is
supplied with the distribution.

An example of a C program to process a HIPS image and a header file with
polygons defined in it is included in ./example. It shouldn't be too 
difficult to adapt this to work with raw polygon files as well. The program
itself sets all pixels in a byte image which are inside the defined polygons 
to 255.


Possible build problems:
-----------------------

Fails to compile with messages about 'Boolean'. There was a clash between
the HIPS header file definition of Boolean, and the X11/Intrinsics definition
of Boolean. This has been sorted out in the most recent HIPS release, which
uses h_boolean instead of Boolean to avoid the conflict.

OpenWindows or X11 stuff not found. Ensure that $OPENWINHOME environment
variable is set - or edit Makefile appropriately.

Possible runtime problems:
-------------------------

OpenWindows or X11 stuff not found. Ensure that the OpenWindows and X
libraries are include in your LD_LIBRARY_LIST environment variable.

Occasional messages from OpenWindows/X11 about invalid colormaps when
quitting xdisp. I believe this is an OpenWindows problem - I haven't seen
it with more recent window managers incorporated into Solaris 2.

Image colors sometimes slightly different on different occasions/machines.
By default xdisp uses as many colors as it can without clashing with the
existing OpenWindows applications, so it might use differing numbers at
differing times. Use the -colors option to fix the number used.

Message about insufficient colors, or small number of colors used. See
previous comments. You may have other applications using lots of colors.

Flashing colors on screen as cursor moves around. If you're not using the
default for -colors, this will happen on 8-bit systems when there is a clash
between xdisp color usage and other applications, or OpenWindows. This does
not occur on 24-bit systems with multiple colormaps.

Message about visual being read only. xdisp uses Pseudocolor visual (8-bit
writable colormap). You may get this message with greyscale or Truecolor
monitors.
